#summary Quick tips on writing extensions for Asterisk and Drupal.
#labels Development,Extensions,Tutorials

= Extending Asterisk and Drupal =

Some info on extending Asterisk and Drupal functionalities by creating modules and such.

= Extending Drupal =

== Installing new modules ==

Drupal modules usually ship as a tar.gz archive which we have to extract to the drupal's /modules/ folder (for example: /var/www/drupal/modules). After extraction, go to the drupal administration interface (log in as an administrator user and go to Administer), go to Site building then Modules and chose to "run cron manually" if necessary or just observe that new modules have been installed.

For each module, we can enable or disable features by ticking checkboxes. Although, some features require other modules to be installed first. This is the case of the 

== Installing the File Framework and getting its File Browser up ==

The *fileframework module* can be downloaded from [http://drupal.org/project/fileframework/ this page]. Download the latest/available version, it should be ok.

In order to have the file browser up, we need to:
  # install the *[http://drupal.org/project/rdf/ RDF module]* and the *[http://drupal.org/project/bitcache Bitcache module]* (Important, *don't download alpha-3 see (1)* !).
  # in Drupal's interface, log in as an administrator go to Administer > Site building > Modules > File management: *enable the "Browser" feature*.

(1) Either download the alpha2 version (from december 2008) or the last development version (from 14 january 2009 or later), but not alpha-3 which is buggy and won't allow you to create any new piece of content ! Use [http://drupal.org/node/192590/release this link to be able to download more versions] of the Bitcache module.

*The File Browser exposes a block* which you can put you can put in a region. See the Enabling installed modules blocks below.

== Getting a tree block of taxonomies into a side pane with the taxonomy_dhtml module==
The [http://drupal.org/project/taxonomy_dhtml Taxonomy DHTML module which depends on the [http://drupal.org/project/dhtml_menu DHTML Menu module] exposes a block that shows the taxonomies tree with a limited or unlimited depth.

The DHTML component of both modules allows the generated menus/trees to be expanded on click without forcing a full page reload and also give nice animation effects when menu items are expanded/collapsed.

Once the two above-mentioned modules are installed and enabled, configuration for the Taxonomy DHTML module can be done in Administer > Site configuration > Taxonomy DHTML. There, it is important to check the "Expose block" option and why not to increase the Depth to some bigger number or "All" so as to be able to see the full tree. You will likely need to move the newly exposed block from this Taxonomy DHTML module to a page region thanks to the Blocks administration view (see the "Enabling installed modules blocks" below).

== Enabling installed modules blocks ==

In Drupal, this is possible to let modules or information be located on left,right,top and bottom (footer) regions/panes/sidebars of all or specific pages. The sort of widgets/information that modules can put in these regions on request is called blocks.

Once some module is enabled (built-in ones are automatically enabled), go to Administer > Site building > Blocks. Then go to the "Disabled" section to see blocks that have not been assigned a region yet, and for the block you want to place somewhere change the drop-down box which is "<none>" to something such as "Left sidebar".

Be sure to click "Save blocks" at the bottom of the page to submit changes.

There's a also a nice [http://blip.tv/file/222725 video tutorial on blocks here].

= Extending Asterisk =

== Adding new sounds to Asterisk ==
On [http://encyclopedia.wordpress.com/2007/09/25/asterisk-writing-native-extensions-for-asterisk-12/ this encyclopedia page], Justin Tunney says:
"The core encoding method for Asterisk is AST_FORMAT_SLINEAR, in which non-compressed audio is sampled 8000 times a second, with 16-bit signed samples." (those files in .sln extension)

For conversion into .gsm (natively accepted by Asterisk): once you have some files to convert, you should follow the tutorial at [http://www.voip-info.org/tiki-index.php?page=Convert+WAV+audio+files+for+use+in+Asterisk this page] to do roughly the following things:
  # Convert your sound files to .gsm or .sln file format using sox or whatever software application you want.(1)
  # Move your files to /usr/share/asterisk/sounds/ (and inside another folder of your choice if you want).
  # In extensions.conf (from /etc/asterisk/) you Playback() and !BackGround() calls should refer to your file name's path relative to /usr/share/asterisk/sounds/ and without any extension (no .gsm or .wav if ever you manage to make .wav played).

(1) note: If you use sox, the `sox source.wav dest.gsm` command without more options may not be sufficient to give the right results because the sampling rate is obviously unchanged between source and destination. If that sampling rate is too high, Asterisk will play the gsm at less than the speed you want.

== Coding new functions to be used in the dialplan ==
_All quoted stuff comes from [http://encyclopedia.wordpress.com/2007/09/25/asterisk-writing-native-extensions-for-asterisk-12/ this page] written by Justin Tunney._
"The following directories in the Asterisk source tree are important and worth mentioning."

  * "funcs/ Where custom dial plan function modules are stored. Custom functions are registered with ast_custom_function_register()."